V. A. Thakor et al.: Lightweight Cryptography Algorithms for Resource-Constrained IoT Devices
TABLE 1. List of Abbreviations and Acronyms.
B. SECURITY CONCERNS OF RESOURCE-CONSTRAINED
IoT DEVICES: CHALLENGES AND SECURITY
REQUIREMENTS
When billions of smart devices (connected devices) work-
ing in a diverse set of platforms, especially when shifting
from server to sensors, gives birth to various unprecedented
challenges to their owners or users [6] such as security &
privacy, interoperability, longevity & support, technologies
and many more [8]. Also, IoT devices are easily accessible
and exposed to many security attacks [9] as they interact
directly with the physical world to collect conﬁdential data or
to control physical environment variables, which makes them
an attractive target for attackers [10]. All these circumstances
make cybersecurity as a major challenge in IoT devices with
demands of conﬁdentiality, data integrity, authentication &
authorization, availability, privacy & regulation standards and
regular system updates [8]. The Figure 2 depicts IoT security
challenges and its security requirements.
In this scenario, cryptography could be one of the effec-
tive measures to guarantee conﬁdentiality, integrity and
authentication & authorization of the traversing data through
IoT devices [7]. It could also be a solution to secure the
stored or traversing data over the network. However, con-
ventional PC based cryptography algorithms do not ﬁt into
resource-constrained IoT devices due to their high resource
demands. A lighter version of these solutions, lightweight
FIGURE 2. IoT Security Challenges.
FIGURE 3. Key Challenges with Conventional Cryptography.
cryptography, can address these challenges to secure the com-
munication in resource-constrained IoT devices.
C. KEY CHALLENGES WHILE IMPLEMENTING
CONVENTIONAL CRYPTOGRAPHY IN
RESOURCE-CONSTRAINED IoT DEVICES
The key challenges while implementing conventional cryp-
tography in IoT devices (Figure 3) are as follows [11]:
• Limited memory (registers, RAM, ROM)
• Reduced computing power
• Small physical area to implement the assembly
• Low battery power (or no battery)
• Real-time response
Most of the IoT devices (such as RFIDs and sensors) are small
in size and are equipped with limited resources such as small
memory (RAM, ROM) to store and to run the application,
low computing power to process the data, limited battery
power (or no battery in case of passive RFID tags) [6], small
physical area to ﬁt-in the assembly [6], [11]. Moreover, most
of the IoT devices deal with the real-time application where
quick and accurate response with essential security using
28178
VOLUME 9, 2021
